You've reached the end of
this module on UI frameworks, is now time to review what you've learned during
these lessons. Over the course of this module, you've explored the concepts of UI frameworks and libraries, and covered an
introduction to React. Let's recap the key points you learned and the
skills you gained. You began the module with an introduction
to UI frameworks. Following the completion
of this first lesson, you should now be able to utilize CSS and
JavaScript libraries, demonstrate a high level
understanding of dependencies, package managers, and
JavaScript bundlers, and explain the
key techniques and concepts of responsive
web design, such as screen resolutions
and fixed and fluid grids. You should also be
able to develop a simple Bootstrap website
with the use of HTML and CSS. Utilize Bootstrap CSS library, including deploying
class in fixes for responsive breakpoints and
class modifiers to change your CSS code and demonstrate
an understanding of Bootstrap's grid
system by building a web page using
the Bootstrap grid. Following your exploration of UI frameworks and libraries, you then covered an
introduction to React and the JavaScript library for
building user interfaces. Now that you've completed
an introduction to react, you should be able
to differentiate between static and
dynamic web page content. List examples of how each type works in the context
of web servers. Explain what a single-page
application is, how it works, and how it differs from traditional
web applications. You should also be able to outline the purpose of React
as a JavaScript library, explain the concept of the
React component model, and identify examples
of common components. Demonstrate a high
level understanding of React components, explain how React
components operate as a hierarchy in order to generate a web page
through the virtual DOM. You're now familiar
with the basics of UI frameworks and libraries, and the basics of React
and React Native. Excellent. You've
made great progress.